>> Mathew DesLauriers: So
that's sort of the setup of
some things that I'm inspired by,
hopefully it'll inspire you a bit.
And now we wanna get into how do we
actually make some art with code?
How do we make some cool, creative-looking
outputs using just JavaScript and
using some of the concepts that you might
already be familiar with with frontend.
So this is one of the sorta
pieces we're gonna try and
create in the first part of the workshop.
And I call it Unicode compositions because
these are all little tiny brush strokes
are actually just symbols.
They're just like an equal sign, or
a plus sign, or a period or a comma, or
something like that.
So this is what we're gonna be aiming for
and we'll talk about how to get there.
We'll probably have to work our way up to
it starting with something much more basic
and then we'll get there in a sec.
So for those of you who've already
opened the repo, you can open it again.
This is the repository for
the workshop and
it holds basically all of
the information we need for today.
So it's got some of the tools
we're gonna be using.
It has links to documentation, all of
the prerequisite sorta tools we need.
Make sure you're on node eight and
npm05 or above.
If you are having trouble
installing anything,
there's a much more in-depth
installation guide.
And then we're gonna be installing some of
these tools, I'm gonna talk about them.
If you're new to the command line, I've
also included a few tips and suggestions,
sometimes you'll see me when
I'm using the command line.
You'll see me using autocompletion,
or the up and down arrows so
just be familiar with those.
And then we don't need
to clone this repo yet.
I'm gonna try and
have us create it from scratch.
So we create our own sorta folder
structure and stuff like that.
But if you wanted to clone it for whatever
reason, you can do that with this link.
I've also included a bit of a cheat sheet,
cuz when I started doing creative coding,
I realized that there's a lot of like,
little patterns and recipes that
you just have to memorize them.
And once you memorized them, you can
really reuse them in many different ways.
And when I was starting, I kinda wished
that I had a cheat sheet to refer to.
So I decided to set you guys
up with like a cheat sheet.
And this talks about a few different
tricks that I use in a lot of my different
creative coding projects.
Whether it's an artwork or whether
it's an actual client project, like
a webGL experience or something like that,
they tend to appear in most of my code.
So you can use that as a reference.
And then I've included a few
of my favorite NPM modules.
We're gonna be talking about npm, and how
do we bring in some cool code from npm.
And some further reading, which includes
more details and more advanced stuff.
You can use this after the workshop.
So in terms of tools,
obviously we need a code editor.
I'm gonna be using VS code.
And it includes some nice extensions,
which we'll get into for
things like shaders and GLSL within a
template stream, kind of things like that.
But sublime text also works or
whatever you like.
Browser, I would say Chrome, and mainly
because the tools we're gonna be using
are gonna be exporting really
high-res images sometimes or
exporting hundreds of frames for video.
And Chrome, I found,
is really good for that.
But Firefox should work as well,
or Safari, or whatever.
Canvas, this is not actually
something we need to install,
it's just built into browsers,
the Canvas tag.
You can check out the docs here.
And then obviously command
line we're gonna be using,
hopefully it's Unix compatible.
So if you're on Windows,
I would suggest commander, but
you can also use command.exe.
We have node and npm so
when you install the latest node,
it should come with the latest npm
as well, that should be good enough.
And then we're gonna get into some
of the more core specific tools.
So Canvas Sketch is a tool that I've been
building and I've been building it now for
a while.
Really, I started this tool,
I guess, years ago technically,
because I've been just
iterating it on it ever since.
And now it's the tool that I use in
almost all of my client projects and
all of my generative art projects.
It's still very experimental and
it's still a work in progress.
And it might show some bugs
today when we go to use it,
but hopefully, it'll be stable enough for
us to really dive into things.
And it's basically, it's a mix of things,
it's a development environment.
So for
those of you who have used BrowserSync or
something like that,
this is sort of an alternative.
It's also an alternative to using Webpack
or those kind of tools, like parcel.
It is specifically designed for
this kind of creative coding and
generative art and
we'll see why in a little bit.
So it is a development environment and
a command line interface.
It's also a set of a library, like a set
of JavaScript libraries to do some common
things like manipulating the Canvas, or
working with paper sizes like A4, and
A3, if you wanted to export or
print artwork.
And then it's also just
a set of resources.
I spent a lot of time trying to
get the documentation really rich,
because I think that's one of the things
that is generally lacking in these sort of
generative art things,
is that there's not always a lot of
instruction on how do you go from A to B.
And so hopefully, that will be all there.
If there's really anything through
the workshop where you wanted to dive into
something in more depth,
you should probably look here.
Because this is gonna have a bit more info
on things like using physical units like
inches and centimeters, which is something
that without a tool like this, it might be
kinda tricky to use that to create code
that is working on centimeters and
inches, but
this tool makes it pretty easy.
So that's that.
And then you'll notice in the repo, I have
another thing called canvas-sketch-util.
That's just a third-party library
that includes some really opinionated
math functions and
pseudorandom number generator functions,
as well as some utilities for
shaders and stuff like that.
And we're gonna install
those in a little bit.
And then, lastly,
in the second part of the workshop
we're gonna be talking about three.js.
We don't really need to
talk about that yet,
cuz we're gonna focus on more of the 2D
canvas API stuff for the morning.